---
title: "PhD Thesis: Graph Based Evolutionary Algorithms For Transportation Problems"
collection: reports
permalink: /reports/2001-04-27-Paper
excerpt: 'Tim Ozdemir'
date: 2001-04-27
venue: 'Syracuse University, Syracuse, New York, USA, April 27'
paperurl: 'https://dl.acm.org/doi/book/10.5555/933764' 
citation: 'Hasan Timucin Ozdemir, &quot;Graph Based Evolutionary Algorithms For Transportation Problems&quot;, <i>Doctor of Philosophy in Computer and Information Science in the Graduate School of Syracuse University, Syracuse, New York, USA, April 27, 2001</i>.'
---

PhD Thesis: Graph Based Evolutionary Algorithms For Transportation Problems, Syracuse University, Syracuse, New York, USA, 2001. 
 
Abstract
-------- 
A large number of optimization problems need to be solved in the field of transportation, and have considerable industrial
and practical significance. The majority of these problems are multi-objective, highly constrained (due to regulations and
physical limitations) and NP-complete. In general, even very little improvement in the solution (1%) produces substantial
profit as well as satisfaction of customers and employees. Traditional Operations Research (OR) techniques are generally
applied to solve these problems, with recent interest in Tabu Search and Evolutionary Algorithms. Sophisticated modeling
and transformation techniques have been proposed and studied.

This dissertation proposes a new approach to solve transportation problems, hybridizing with previously known algorithms
when appropriate. We propose a new graph representation and operations to be applied on this representation, using
evolutionary algorithms. We applied these ideas on the Airline Crew Scheduling (ACS) and Vehicle Routing with Time
Windows (VRPTW) problems. We applied the new algorithms to many problem sets and demonstrate that the evolutionary
algorithms with the new proposed representation are able to produce competitive solutions for these multi-objective, highly
constrained, and NP-hard problems.
<br>
See 
- [Download here](https://dl.acm.org/doi/book/10.5555/933764)

Recommended citation: [Hasan Timucin Ozdemir](https://www.linkedin.com/in/hasantimucinozdemir/), "Graph Based Evolutionary Algorithms For Transportation Problems", <i>Doctor of Philosophy in Computer and Information Science in the Graduate School of Syracuse University, Syracuse, New York, USA, April 27, 2001</i>.
